.de Vb
.ft CW
.nf
.ne \\$1
..
.TH brent 1  "1998-04-21"
.ds )H CLUE, University of Erlangen
.SH NAME
brent \- Brent style valency list extractor for English
.SH SYNOPSIS
.CR brent
.RC [file]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B Brent
is an automatic tool to extract valency lists
in feature structure format from tokenized English text files.
.CR Brent
reads a text file (default is
.BI corpus
in current directory), creating an auxiliary file
with a crude annotation with extension 
.BI .t
The resulting dictionary is written to
.BI stdout
.
systems, e.g. Malaga).
.PP
.Vb 11
\&
\&      ...
\&      I
\&      do
\&      not
\&      believe
\&      that
\&      I
\&      could
\&      have
\&      fixed
\&      ...
\&
\&       |
\&       |
\&       V
\&
\&      [ Lemma: "doubt", Valencies: <<Clause>> ];
\&      [ Lemma: "display", Valencies: <<NounPhrase_Obj>> ];
.Ve

It is an implementation of the rules-base method akin to that described in 
Brent (1993), version without statistic filtering.
Originally implemented on the author's Atari ST 520+ using Berkeley YACC
then compiled on a HP9000 715/75 under HP-UX 9.03.

.SH EXAMPLES
.LP
.nf
.ft B
 brent > corpus.lex

 brent test | more
.ft R
.fi
.SH REFERENCES
Brent, Michael R. (1993)
From Grammar to Lexicon:
Unsupervised Learning of Lexical Syntax.
.I Computational Linguistics
19(2), 244-262.

Leidner, Jochen L. (1998):
.I Linksassoziative Morphologische Analyse des Englischen
.I mit Stochastischer Disambiguierung.
Master's thesis.
Department of Computational Linguistics, University of Erlangen.

Beutel, Bj<F6>rn (1998):
.I Malaga 4.0.
(Unpublished documentation.)
[Online.] <http://www.linguistik.uni-erlangen.de/Malaga.html>
.SH BUGS
None known.
.SH AUTHOR
Jochen L. Leidner <leidner@acm.org>
